feat: Context compression (#328)
agno-agi/docs: basics/context-compression/overview.mdx

---
title: Context Compression
sidebarTitle: Overview
description: Learn how to compress tool call results to save context space while preserving critical information.
keywords: [context compression, tool call compression, context management, token optimization]
tag: beta
---

Context Compression allows you to manage your agent context while it is running, helping the agent stay within its context window and avoid rate limits or decreases in response quality. 

The first iteration of context compression focuses on intelligently summarizing large tool results, reducing token usage without losing essential data.

> 

Author: added an e.g which shows all tool calls

- Multi-step workflows with many tool calls
- Long-running sessions where context accumulates

<Note>
Context compression adds latency but significantly reduces context usage and costs for tool-heavy agents.
</Note>

## Quick Start

Enable context compression with a single parameter:

<CodeGroup>
```python Agent wrap
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    compress_tool_results=True,  # Enable compression
)

agent.print_response("Research the latest AI announcements")
```

```python Team wrap
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.team import Team
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Researcher",
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
)

team = Team(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    members=[web_agent],
    compress_tool_results=True,  # Enable compression
)

team.print_response("What are the latest developments in AI agents? Which companies dominate the market? Find the latest news and reports on the companies.")
```

> </CodeGroup>

Reviewer: Maybe mention that you can enable it for team members separately

---
title: Context Compression
sidebarTitle: Overview
description: Learn how to compress tool call results to save context space while preserving critical information.
keywords: [context compression, tool call compression, context management, token optimization]
---

> Context Compression allows you to intelligently summarize large tool results reducing token usage without losing essential data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Context Compression allows you to manage your agent context while it is running, helping the agent stay within its context window and avoid rate limits or decreases in response quality. 

The first iteration of context compression focuses on intelligently summarizing large tool results, reducing token usage without losing essential data.
```

)

agent.print_response(
    "Research the latest AI announcements from OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google"
)
```

<Tip>
Compression preserves specific facts (numbers, dates, entities, identifiers) while removing verbose descriptions, meta-commentary, and formatting artifacts.
</Tip>

## Custom Compression

For more customization options:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.compression.manager import CompressionManager
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools.duckduckgo import DuckDuckGoTools

compression_manager = CompressionManager(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),  # Use a faster model for compression
    compress_tool_results_limit=2,  # Compress after 2 tool calls (default: 3)
    compress_tool_call_instructions="Your custom compression prompt here...",
)

agent = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o"),
    tools=[DuckDuckGoTools()],
    compression_manager=compression_manager,
)

agent.print_response("Find recent funding rounds for AI startups")
```

<Tip>
Use a faster, cheaper model like `gpt-4o-mini` for compression to reduce latency and cost while keeping your main agent on a more capable model.
</Tip>

> ## Using with Teams

Author: done
